# Embed Power BI reports into your applications

Reduce your tool footprint and development/support costs. Once your team learns how to create great Power BI reports, leverage that skill set throughout the organization. Power BI reports can be embedded in several Office 365 applications like PowerPoint and SharePoint seamlessly. Allow your colleagues to master the tool set and leverage their work in multiple areas. Get support assistance from the Power BI experts and peer community [Power BI Fabric Community support site](https://community.fabric.microsoft.com/t5/Microsoft-Power-BI-Community).

What about embedding reports into my custom web applications? Migrating from custom web application reports to Power BI embedded reports offers a host of compelling advantages. Power BI is a robust and widely recognized business intelligence tool, known for its user-friendly interface, and powerful scalable analytical capabilities. By leveraging Power BI embedded reports, you can provide your users with a more intuitive and visually appealing reporting experience without relying completely on developers. The same reports users and analysts create can be embedded in your web app.  

Power BI offers a plethora of data visualization options, making it easy to present complex data in an easy and understandable manner. Power BI's integration capabilities allow for seamless embedding within your existing web applications, ensuring a cohesive and unified user experience. Simplify report creation and maintenance by leveraging pre-built templates and interactive visualizations. Additionally, Power BI's continuous monthly updates and support from Microsoft guarantees your reporting capabilities remain cutting-edge. No longer will you be bound to custom software installations and versions that are updated infrequently.

At Solliance, we can help navigate the environment design, configuration, and licensing to ensure capacity and budget needs are met. We can help guide your developers through the application report integration process that gives your application users a unified secure reporting experience.
