# Overview

At Solliance, we help companies operate more efficiently by creating
scalable enterprise business intelligence (BI) infrastructure and
visually appealing reports that scale with your performance needs. Our
analysts, engineers, and data scientists will explore your business
domain and organization's data to help reveal hidden insights and
trends. We provide guidance to support a successful data culture.

Building a capable data culture and platform occurs in phases. We can
create a customized BI maturity roadmap allowing your organization to
evolve at the optimum speed. As your expert BI partner, we will make it
possible for your analysts and users to answer priority business
questions and take action based on derived data insights fast.

# Migrate to a modern BI platform

Solliance will partner with your organization to implement your
end-to-end BI solution. Whether your data lives in Excel spreadsheets, a
SaaS environment, or enterprise cloud database providers, we can
customize an architecture to migrate/integrate your data into a high
performance data serving layer.

Great reports require current data and need to be enhanced to answer
current and new business questions. Your business environment keeps
changing and so will your reporting needs. Users need to realize
important facts quickly and explore the data to answer new business
questions and hidden insights.

## Migrate from Excel to Power BI

Ready to migrate from Excel to Power BI reports? It depends on your
needs. How much data are you processing and what are you report
collaboration needs? Excel allows for great dataset definition
flexibility, data exploration, and proof of concept (POC) modeling. Once
your POC model is complete, consider migrating the data model and
visualizations to a scalable BI platform like Power BI.

As dataset sizes grow and collaboration needs evolve, Power BI can
process your data quickly and share reports securely. Processing larger
more complex data is no longer constrained by a user's desktop hardware.
Automated data refresh schedules make it easy to configure refresh
schedules to match your company's needs. Avoid the manual steps for
report distribution and collaboration. Free your resources from
repetitive low value copy-paste tasks.

Solliance will migrate your key spreadsheets and data processing into
central data serving repository using a modern automated workflow. Your
report users will have valid fresh data all the time without executing
manual tasks. Power BI's Vertipaq engine provides fast data processing
allowing for high performant visualization rendering.

## Centralize your data and calculations into a single source of truth

Important organization data can be located in multiple data source
locations. Manually exporting and importing data from the application
platform into the reporting platform can be time consuming and error prone. Power BI and Azure services makes data ingestion, modeling, and rapid report
development easy. With over 90 data provider connectors, Solliance can
automate data importing from many of the top data serving platforms on
automatic scheduled basis. Bringing the data into a central data repository provides single source of truth, line-of-business (LOB) vendor independence, and allows users to ask more complex questions across different data domains.

Once your team validates key calculations, make them available to the rest of the organization. Let others create new reports from a known certified dataset. Create and increase the ability for user self-service BI solutions and reduce the barrier for a thriving organizational data
culture.

# Data modeling

Create great reports fast depends on a easy-to-understand validated data model. Our team can create easy to understand clean data models and measures that empower analysts and users to create their own appealing accurate reports independently. We discover, validate, and optimize the data relationships for the best report performance and key data insights.

# Report and Dashboard Development

Solliance's Power BI experts and data scientists specialize in data
visualization and report design. Through close collaboration we will
turn your organization goals into reports that focus on key data
performance indicators, data influencers, and insights. We listen
closely to stakeholder feedback and analyze the data to refine the
reports to match their expectations. Great reports enable faster, more
accurate decision-making based on the most current and relevant data.

# Ask an Expert

Solliance wants to make sure our clients can create their own reports
and manage their Power BI and Azure environment. We will provide end of
project documentation and training materials to make sure you have the
necessary materials for continued success. Our assistance does not end
there.

We offer on-site and remote Power BI/Azure training opportunities.

Subject areas include:

1.  Introduction to Power BI
2.  Data modeling for Analysts
3.  Power Query: Data cleaning and transformation
4.  DAX measures
5.  Monitoring your Power BI tenant and Azure resources

Customized learning paths are available upon request.

Leverage Power BI and Azure service to the fullest.

# Optimizing an your existing Power BI environment

Are some of your reports slow? Are you spending more money than you need
to for cloud services? Viewing reports and performing data analysis can
be frustrating to users when the platform performance is slow. User
adoption can suffer due to easily identifiable fixable environment and
modeling problems. Determining performance bottlenecks and data
governance issues in a complex system can take a long time. Solliance
has built tools and leverages Microsoft services to identify performance
and governance problems across the entire Power BI tenant. You will be
able to spot key areas of concern and reports that require additional
investigation.

Administrators can easily spot divergent data policy behaviors and
address them sooner before they become costly organizational mistakes.
Data driven conversations about Power BI resource usage are now possible
with developers and leadership. Administrators can develop usage
profiles and performance trend analysis proactively instead of waiting
for community complaints and environment outages. Cloud provider budgets
can be more accurate based on a current and projected usage profile.

## Assessment steps

Step 1 - Develop an Power BI environment artifact and usage profile. Be
able answer questions like:

-   How many workspaces, datasets, and reports make up your environment?
    What type of data are users creating reports from?
-   How many users are in your tenant and what types of activities are
    they performing and how often?
-   What day of the week and time are the users performing those
    activities?
-   What type access and roles are assigned in your environment?
-   Which reports are driving compute costs?

Step 2 - Assess your current Power BI tenant for performance and
improvement suggestions based on your reporting and data processing
usage. Understand where your environment resources are being used and
spent. Learn who is consuming resources and driving your cloud service
consumption expenses.

Step 3 - Let's work together to develop or refine a plan based on your
organization data analysis requirements and resource budget. Train users
on best practices and environment usage guidelines.

Our experts can fine-tune your environment to provide the optimal user
experience.

# Embed Power BI reports into your applications

Reduce your tool footprint and development/support costs. Once your team learns how to create great
Power BI reports, leverage that skill set throughout the organization.
Power BI reports can be embedded in several Office 365 applications like
PowerPoint and SharePoint seamlessly. Allow your colleagues to master
the tool set and leverage their work in multiple areas. 

What about embedding reports into my custom web applications? Migrating
from custom web application reports to Power BI embedded reports offers
a host of compelling advantages. Power BI is a robust and widely
recognized business intelligence tool, known for its user-friendly
interface, and powerful scalable analytical capabilities. By leveraging
Power BI embedded reports, you can provide your users with a more
intuitive and visually appealing reporting experience without relying
completely on developers. The same reports users and analysts create can
be embedded in your web app.

Power BI offers a plethora of data visualization options, making it easy
to present complex data in an easy and understandable manner. Power BI's
integration capabilities allow for seamless embedding within your
existing web applications, ensuring a cohesive and unified user
experience. Simplify report creation and maintenance by leveraging
pre-built templates and interactive visualizations. Additionally, Power
BI's continuous monthly updates and support from Microsoft guarantees
your reporting capabilities remain cutting-edge. No longer will you be
bound to custom software installations and versions that are updated
infrequently.

At Solliance, we can help navigate the environment configuration and
licensing to ensure capacity and budget needs are met. We can help guide
your developers through the application report integration process that
gives your application users a unified experience.

# Data-driven alerts

What good are great reports and insights if no one uses them
consistently? Leverage the same Power BI artifacts for alerts. Solliance
can create data-driven alerts based on key Power BI measure thresholds.
Once a threshold is reached, a notification can be sent out to report
users with a link back to the Power BI report. This increases report
usage and the likelihood users will take action on organization key
performance indicators.

# Data Security

Do you know where your data comes from, how it is evolving, and who is
accessing it? Are there restrictions on how it should be shared?
Solliance can help you craft governance and data policy that allows your
team the freedom to create business reports while adhering the
organization's data security policy. Free up your engineering and
operation teams from time consuming discovery and governance monitoring
tasks. Enable data stewards and owners to manage the environment
independently. Create reports on data access rights throughout your
tenant.

# Big data needs

# Report development methodology

Building a report with appealing visualizations is only a small part of
the overall process. What good is a report that does not focus on
answering the right question in the first place?

At Solliance, we focus on a holistic approach to creating a report. We
will guide your organization through answering preliminary questions
like:

1.  What are the near term priority business goals and how are you
    measuring your performance/progress with data? When you understand
    the reporting focus, the data source requirements become clear. You
    know what data needs to be extracted and processed.
2.  What actions are your users taking after reviewing your reports?
    Reports provide value measurements of excellence and provide clarity
    regarding areas of deficiencies.
3.  Who are the main stakeholders? Why should they care about your
    report? Just because a report has been developed, does not mean the
    target audience is invested and adoption is guaranteed. Great
    reports require collaboration and should be customized to meet the
    stakeholders' prioritized use cases. The report design is affected
    greatly by the stakeholder profile and their needs.
4.  Where is the stakeholder most likely to view a report? e.g. Plant
    floor, desk, on a phone in a car. Target audiences may view their
    reports in different locations, devices, and formats. These critical
    requirements affect technology choices and report design.
5.  What does project success look like? Each phase of project or task
    needs a success target. This target will serve as a stopping point
    to evaluate the current iteration success.

Implementing a successful BI project entails more than deploying and
configuring technology. It is about answering the right questions in the
report. The organization must believe in and value the report;
leadership must review and rely the same report data. "*Don't expect
what you don't inspect.*"

# Data Integrations

Solliance's engineers can set up a pipeline to automate your data
extraction tasks whether your data is stored on on-premises, in Azure,
or at other cloud providers. Multiple data sources can be transformed
into the optimal analytical format making it ready for reports and
machine learning processes. You can implement an end-to-end analytics
solution on a single platform. We can solve your difficult integration
challenges.
